- [Instructor] With Azure CLI installed
we're going to configure our spring boot app
to be deployed with the Azure CLI and Gradle plugin.
We will need both of these to deploy our application.
The Gradle plugin is actually pretty new.
Most spring boot apps in the past
have had to deploy strictly
with only using the Maven plugins.
Okay, so let's first start
with opening our vagrant terminal instance,
and ensure you type vagrant up and vagrant ssh
after the instance is up.
As you can see here, I've already typed these
and I'm logged into the vagrant instance.
We'll be doing the majority of our builds
and deployments through Azure CLI for these videos.
So let's start off by creating a directory
to hold these builds.
We'll type, make directory azure_deployments
hit enter.
We'll cd into the Azure deployment,
clear the screen.
Next we're going to need a token for our build and deploy.
So let's get one from the Azure CLI.
We'll do this by typing az login and hit enter.
This is going to generate for us a message in the browser
and we'll need to enter the key code it provides.
First copy the URL,
open up our browser window, paste this in, hit enter.
We're going to go back now and copy the code.
Go back to our browser window.
We'll paste this in, hit enter.
This will of course prompt us for our credentials
and our password.
And when you're done,
it's going to tell you that you can close this window.
We'll go back to the terminal.
You'll notice after a moment,
the command line interface has been released
from the login command
and now it's ready to accept new commands.
Before we use the Azure CLI we need to prep our code
in IntelliJ and create a new branch.
Update the build.gradle file
and then pull this code down inside
of our vagrant instance.
Let's open up IntelliJ.
With IntelliJ open we're using the project build
that we've been using from previous videos.
This is located in our home directories
at tilde spring boot production.
Now we'll be making updates here.
Before we do this, if you run into issues
with doing git pushes to our remote repository,
and it asks you for a username,
I recommend running the following.
We'll type git remote set-url origin.
Then it's going to be HTTPS://your username for GitHub.
My line is cwm-coding at github.com/
again your username, cwm-coding is mine,
and then the name of the project,
spring boot production.git, and hit enter.
Again, note that CWM coding is used twice here
in this url and this is the username.
Next from the terminal window,
we're going to type git switch main
and I'm already on the main directory.
This is going to be followed by git checkout -b azure_jar,
hit enter.
Next, we're going to push
this new branch back to production.
We'll type, git push -u origin azure_jar,
hit enter.
After running the push command
it may ask you for your password.
If it does, please copy and paste the user token
for this action.
Okay, let's clear the window.
We're going to open our build.gradle,
scroll to the top.
Inside the plugin sections at the top,
go down to just underneath the spring management,
hit enter and right above the ID, 'java',
we're going to type ID 'com.microsoft.azure.azureweb'
and then outside of this we're going to type
version 1.1.0.
We'll save that.
Let's check and make sure we've type everything okay,
com.microsoft.azure.azureweb.
There we go, azure web app.
We'll save that.
And I want to briefly show you the GitHub repository
that this plugin is related to.
If we go to the GitHub repository,
Microsoft Azure-Gradle-plugins
tree master Azure-web app-Gradle plugin.
This is the plugin that we are using for this build.
Now I recommend you take time, review the plugin
the information here as well as the documentation.
Microsoft also has a Wiki that runs through
the various plugin properties that you could use.
And of course how you would authenticate,
along with examples.
Let's go back to the other page.
We'll scroll down,
and we're going to be using this section of code here.
I recommend you go ahead and copy.
Now let's go back to IntelliJ.
Let's go down to the bottom,
going to hit enter a couple times
and we're going to paste in
what we just copied from the website.
We'll save it.
We're going to go up and begin modifying the configuration.
First, let's start with resource group.
We're going to type spring boot-azure-group,
for our app name we'll type spring boot- Azure-app.
For pricing tier will use B1.
And for the region,
we'll go ahead and just use westus.
In the runtime section,
you can tell that we can choose either Tomcat 9.0 or Java SE
since we're doing a jar install, we'll type Java SE.
And we'll leave the Java version as is.
For the app settings,
we can apply any number of different app settings here.
So we're going to type our spring profiles=
and I'm going to type two profiles,
dev,azure
we'll save that,
scroll down and then for the auth,
we'll leave it as Azure CLI.
There's one final property we need to git
and this is the subscription.
I'm going to pause and give a security warning
before we move forward.
I highly discourage you from committing this code
with your Azure subscription ID
because we're using the Azure CLI the subscription ID
is not required for this to work.
Let's go back to the terminal window.
And since we've already ran az space login
we're going to now retrieve our Azure subscription ID.
We can get this by I typing az account list
and we'll use the output table
for a more friendly readable view.
We'll copy the subscription ID.
Let's go back now to our build Gradle file in IntelliJ,
and we'll paste it in here.
With all these changes complete,
now in inside of the IntelliJ terminal,
let's type git add,
then git commit -m, changes added for azure deployment,
and then git push -u origin azure_jar, hit enter.
Now let's switch over to our terminal window,
and let's go to the Azure deployments directory.
Let's clear the screen.
And so next we need to actually clone
what we've actually committed to the remote repository.
I'm going to type git clone -b
for the branch that I want to clone, azure_jar
and then the URL for GitHub,
https://github.com, our username cwm-coding.
Please make sure you put in your username,
and then the repository name,
spring boot production.git, hit enter.
As you can see, this will clone the repository
and put it in our Azure deployments directory.
With this done, let's type clear.
Next, we need to cd into the directory
and we'll type git status to verify the branch.
As you can see, our branch is up to date
with origin azure jar.
We're going to type git fetch origin
and then git full origin.
Next let's clear the window.
And we first need to start by building our application.
We'll type .gradlew clean build.
I want to forewarn you the first time you run a gradle build
in this environment it may take a while.
Gradle has a number of dependencies
that it needs to download.
This step is crucial because the jar has to be built
before we can run the next plugin,
which is the Gradle Azure web App Deployed plugin.
Okay, so it looks like we have an error.
Can you see where the error was made?
If not notice that I mistyped web app
there's only one B in web app.
Let's go back to IntelliJ and fix this real quick.
Go to the top of our plugin section,
click that out, save it.
We'll run our git add,
git commit, and we'll push this back.
Once that's done, go back to our terminal.
We'll write git full origin.
That'll pull down our correction.
Now we'll rerun our clean and build.
It always pays to pay attention to when you type
sometimes even the best of us can accidentally fat finger,
an extra key.
But that's okay, hopefully this encourages you that
all of us make mistakes.
With the initial build done,
now it's time to run our Azure web deploy.
Let's clear the screen.
And we'll type gradlew azurewebAppDeploy,
and hit enter.
This command will build the app
and of course prepare it to be pushed
to Azure for deployment.
The first time you run this command here
it will take a moment
but feel free to pause the video while you wait.
As you can tell the resource been created
within the region west us,
it's creating the web app for spring boot Azure app,
and it's creating the Azure app service plan
called ASP spring boot-Azure-app.
Okay, so it's done.
Now deployment times vary based on your broadband service
and which region you decide to use.
For me, this deployment took six minutes.
As you can see, it's giving us a URL
that it's successfully deployed to.
Let's copy this URL,
open up a browser window and test the deployment.
The first time you load it it will take a moment,
if we can refresh it.
And there we go.
Through the Azure and Gradle plugin
we've successfully built and deployed our application.
Now, if we go over to the Azure portal
and click on resource groups,
we should see our resource group that's been created,
SpringBoot Azure Group.
With all of this done,
we need to tear down the app.
Let's go back to of the web app, in our terminal
and go through the commands necessary
for taking down the app.
We'll type az webapp, delete -- our name
Spring Boot Azure -app, space resource-group
SpringBoot Azure-group, hit enter.
This will take a few moments.
Next, let's go ahead and delete the app service plan.
We'll type az appservice space plan-elite- name space asp
- spring boot- azure-app space,
again, our resource group spring boot-azure- group
space space-yes, hit enter.
And this is going to generate an error
because we need to delete the resource group.
So we'll type az group delete --name SpringBoot-Azure-group
- -yes and hit enter.